Add global data to the documentation (#279)
precice/precice.github.io: pages/docs/couple-your-code/couple-your-code-global-data.md

---

> title: Exchanging Global Data (data not associated to a mesh)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Global data
```

permalink: couple-your-code-global-data.html
keywords: api, adapter, data, global

> summary: "You can define and exchange global data (data not associated to a mesh) with preCICE by using specific optional API functions."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: "Define and exchange global data (data not associated to a mesh) by using specific optional API functions."
```

---

{% warning %}
These API functions are a work in progress, experimental, and are not yet released. The API might change during the ongoing development process. Use with care.
{% endwarning %}

{% note %}
This feature is only available for coupling between two participants, i.e. does not yet support [multi coupling](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling-multi.html). Further, it does not yet allow [convergence measures](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling.html#implicit-coupling-schemes) and [acceleration](https://precice.org/configuration-acceleration) to be defined for global data. An extension to these features is planned.

> {% end note %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% endnote %}
```

> This feature is only available for two-participant coupling and does not yet support [Multi coupling](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling-multi.html). Further, it does not yet allow [Convergence Measures](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling.html#implicit-coupling-schemes) and [Acceleration](https://precice.org/configuration-acceleration) to be defined for global data. An extension to these features is planned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is only available for coupling between two participants, i.e. does not yet support [multi coupling](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling-multi.html). Further, it does not yet allow [convergence measures](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling.html#implicit-coupling-schemes) and [acceleration](https://precice.org/configuration-acceleration) to be defined for global data. An extension to these features is planned.
```
We could eventually link to the follow-up issue here.

> preCICE allows participants to exchange data that is not associated with any mesh. Examples of such data are global background pressure (for e.g. in fluid-acoustic coupling) and angles between coordinate systems (for e.g. in CAMRAD-fluid coupling).

Reviewer: Can we explain this without pointing to CAMRAD?

Author: sure, I just picked it up from the description in https://github.com/precice/precice/issues/202.

How about: "for e.g. in fluid-structure coupling for rotor blades"

Reviewer: good enough :+1:

language-wise, I would use 

> (e.g. fluid-structure coupling for rotor blades)

so, no "for" or "in"

> ## Configuration of Global Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuration
```

Configuration of global data objects is described below with examples.

In order to use this feature, global data needs to be explicitly defined in the configuration file using the `global-data` tag.

```xml
<precice-configuration dimensions="3" experimental="true">
    <global-data:vector name="angles" />
...
```

> Rest of the global data configuration steps are similar to the usual 'mesh-associated' data as described in [Introduction to configuration](https://precice.org/configuration-introduction.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rest of the global data configuration steps are similar to the usual *mesh-associated* data as described in [introduction to configuration](https://precice.org/configuration-introduction.html).
```

```xml
...
<participant name="SolverOne">
    <write-data name="angles" />
...
<participant name="SolverTwo">
    <read-data name="angles">
...
    <exchange data="angles" from="SolverOne" to="SolverTwo" />

> ...

Reviewer: Let's add a rudimentary coupling scheme here. Otherwise, it looks like `exchange` belongs to `participant`.

```

> Since global data is not associated with any mesh, it should not be configured with the `use-data` tag under the `mesh` definition. Similarly, all tags like `read-data`, `write-data` and `exchange` that configure global data should be written without `mesh=...`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since global data is not associated with any mesh, it should not be configured with the `use-data` tag under the `mesh` definition. Similarly, tags such as `read-data`, `write-data`, or `exchange` require no `mesh` attribute if used for global data.
```

> ## Global Data functions in the API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## API
```

The API functions `writeGlobalData(...)` and `readGlobalData(...)` enable exchange of global data analogous to the `writeData(...)` and `readData(...)` functions for mesh-associated data. For the above example, the API calls would be as follows.

For SolverOne:

```C++
...
participant.writeGlobalData("angles", writeAngles);
...
```

For SolverTwo:
```C++
...
participant.readGlobalData("angles", dt, readAngles);
...

```

> ## Supported Functionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported functionality
```

> Global data exchange is supported in both Explicit and Implicit [coupling schemes](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling.html) with Serial as well as Parallel [coupling flows](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-coupling-flow.html#parallel-coupling-schemes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Global data exchange is supported in both explicit and implicit [coupling schemes](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling.html) with serial as well as parallel [coupling flow](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-coupling-flow.html#parallel-coupling-schemes).
```

Within implicit coupling, convergence measures and acceleration are not yet supported.

> [Data Initialization](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-initializing-coupling-data.html) and [Time Interpolation](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-waveform.html) are also supported on global data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Data initialization](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-initializing-coupling-data.html) and [time interpolation](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-waveform.html) are also supported for global data.
```

---
title: Global data
permalink: couple-your-code-global-data.html
keywords: api, adapter, data, global
summary: "Define and exchange global data (data not associated to a mesh) by using specific optional API functions."
---

{% warning %}
These API functions are a work in progress, experimental, and are not yet released. The API might change during the ongoing development process. Use with care.
{% endwarning %}

{% note %}
This feature is only available for coupling between two participants, i.e. does not yet support [multi coupling](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling-multi.html). Further, it does not yet allow [convergence measures](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling.html#implicit-coupling-schemes) and [acceleration](https://precice.org/configuration-acceleration) to be defined for global data. An extension to these features is planned.
{% end note %}

> preCICE allows participants to exchange data that is not associated with any mesh. Examples of such data are global background pressure (for e.g. in fluid-acoustic coupling) and angles between coordinate systems (for e.g. in CAMRAD-fluid coupling).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
preCICE allows participants to exchange data that is not associated with any mesh. Examples of such data are global background pressure (e.g. fluid-acoustic coupling) and angles between coordinate systems (e.g. fluid-structure coupling for rotor blades).
```

## Configuration

Configuration of global data objects is described below with examples.

In order to use this feature, global data needs to be explicitly defined in the configuration file using the `global-data` tag.

```xml
<precice-configuration dimensions="3" experimental="true">
    <global-data:vector name="angles" />
...
```

Rest of the global data configuration steps are similar to the usual *mesh-associated* data as described in [introduction to configuration](https://precice.org/configuration-introduction.html).

```xml
...
<participant name="SolverOne">
    <write-data name="angles" />
...
<participant name="SolverTwo">
    <read-data name="angles">
...
<coupling-scheme:serial-explicit>
    <exchange data="angles" from="SolverOne" to="SolverTwo" />
...
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Since global data is not associated with any mesh, it should not be configured with the `use-data` tag under the `mesh` definition. Similarly, tags such as `read-data`, `write-data`, or `exchange` require no `mesh` attribute if used for global data.

## API

The API functions `writeGlobalData(...)` and `readGlobalData(...)` enable exchange of global data analogous to the `writeData(...)` and `readData(...)` functions for mesh-associated data. For the above example, the API calls would be as follows.

For SolverOne:

```C++
...
participant.writeGlobalData("angles", writeAngles);
...
```

> For SolverTwo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For SolverTwo:

```

```C++
...
participant.readGlobalData("angles", dt, readAngles);
...

```

## Supported functionality

Global data exchange is supported in both explicit and implicit [coupling schemes](https://precice.org/configuration-coupling.html) with serial as well as parallel [coupling flow](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-coupling-flow.html#parallel-coupling-schemes).

Within implicit coupling, convergence measures and acceleration are not yet supported.

> [Data initialization](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-initializing-coupling-data.html) and [time interpolation](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-waveform.html) are also supported for global data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Data initialization](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-initializing-coupling-data.html) and [time interpolation](https://precice.org/couple-your-code-waveform.html) are also supported for global data.

```
